# Gemini Cheatsheet

Gemini takes inspiration from gophermaps and from Markdown.
The format permits richer typographic possibilities than
the plain text of Gopher, but remains extremely easy to parse.  The
format is line-oriented, and a satisfactory rendering can be achieved
with a single pass of a document, processing each line independently.

################################################
Core Line Types:
################################################
----------------------------------------
Text Lines
----------------------------------------
* Text lines are automatically wrapped to the users
  viewport.

* Short lines will not be combined into fewer longer lines.

* Authors should avoid hard wrapping:
	* Text should be written in a single long line (if you with).

*  Clients may permit users to customise the appearance
of text lines by altering the font, font size, text and
background colour, etc.
	* KEY WORD: "MAY" (Something to keep in mind when you format)

* Blank lines have no meaning. A blank space in you DOC will
be formatted as a blank space. Equal to <br>

* Authors who insist on hard-wrapping their content MUST be aware that
the content will display neatly on clients whose display device is as
wide as the hard-wrapped length or wider, but will appear with
irregular line widths on narrower clients

* Authors should not expect to exercise any control over the precise rendering of
their text lines, only of their actual textual content.

----------------------------------------
Link Lines:
-----------------------------------------
Lines beginning with the two characters "=>" are link lines, which
have the following syntax:

=>[<whitespace>]<URL>[<whitespace><USER-FRIENDLY LINK NAME>]<CR><LF>

where:

* <whitespace> is any non-zero number of consecutive spaces or
  tabs

* Square brackets indicate that the enclosed content is
  optional.

* <URL> is a URL, which may be absolute or relative.  If the URL does
  not include a scheme, a scheme of gemini:// is implied.

* As per gopher, links can only be displayed one per line,
  encouraging neat, list-like structure.

* Gemini documents can simply and elegantly link to documents
hosted via other protocols.

All the following examples are valid link lines:

=> gemini://example.org/
=> gemini://example.org/ An example link
=> gemini://example.org/foo     Another example link at the same host
=>gemini://example.org/bar Yet another example link at the same host
=> foo/bar/baz.txt      A relative link
=>      gopher://example.org:70/1 A gopher link

-----------------------------------------
Preformatted Toggle Lines (3 backticks)
-----------------------------------------
" ``` "  - Toggle preformatted mode on/off. Equal to <pre></pre>.

-----------------------------------------
Preformatted Text Lines
-----------------------------------------
* This is what any text written between your Toggle lines will
look like.

* Content such as ASCII art, computer source code, etc. which may
appear incorrectly when treated as such should be enclosed beween
preformatting toggle lines.

* Monospace fonts automatically will be used.

###########################################################
Advanced Line Types:
###########################################################
***
These are more advanced line types that, more than likely, will
only be recognized in more advanced (think graphical) clients.
These will be represented as text lines if the client doesn't
support these line types.
***
-----------------------------------------
Heading Lines
-----------------------------------------
#    - H1 - Heading 1 - Large text
##   - H2 - Heading 2 - Medium text
###  - H3 - Heading 3 - Small text

------------------------------------------
Unordered List Items
------------------------------------------
*    - An asterisk will create an unordered list


####################################################################
OTHER NOTES TO KEEP IN MIND
####################################################################
* Gemini can be used to serve plain text, rich text,
HTML, Markdown, LaTeX, etc.

* Connections are closed after a single transaction.

* Servers should listen on port 1965 over tcp/ip
	* This is an unprivilleged port
	* Use of TLS for Gemini transactions is mandatory
	* Use of the Server Name Indication (SNI) extension to TLS is also
      mandatory, to facilitate name-based virtual hosting.
    * Servers MUST use TLS version 1.2 or higher and SHOULD use TLS version
      1.3 or higher.  Clients MAY refuse to connect to servers using TLS
      version 1.2 or lower.

* Use UTF-8. Serving your content as UTF-8 maximises
its accessibility and maximises the utility of simple
clients which support only UTF-8.

* As a rule of thumb, files larger than 100MiB
might be thought of as best served some other
way. Of course, because Gemini supports linking
to other online content via any protocol with a
URL scheme, it's still possible to link from
a Gemini document to a large file served via
HTTPS, BitTorrent, IPFS or whatever else
tickles your fancy.

* Gemini files are defined by .gmi and .gemini.
